# Bias-Identifier-in-ML-DL-Datasets-For-LLMs-
The artificial world now encompasses the fast-changing world where it has infiltrated every sector and dramatically changed our everyday lives. However, with all its great applications, it also poses some of its own challenges, especially in terms of AI ethics and human values. Mainly, the challenge arises from the bias in the datasets and models, thus resulting in unfair and discriminatory results. Thus, my focus for the project will be on the issue.

My project is an attempt to develop a deep learning model that detects bias in datasets, corrects or removes the biased statements, depending upon the level of bias and negative sentiment. The key to this project relies on using BERT, which is one of the state-of-the-art models for natural language understanding, where it performs sentiment analysis. Specifically, the model assesses the sentences in terms of the bias and negativity toward the specific topic and determines to edit or discard the sentences that have extreme negative attitudes to ensure that the final dataset is neutral and not biased.

Preprocessing of the Text Data
The beginning of the process involves preprocessing of the text. This involves tokenizing text for words, removal of stop words, and lemmatization where the text is reduced into its base or root forms. A pre-trained sentiment analysis model carries out the sentiment analysis by classifying sentences as positive, negative, or neutral. Any sentence whose negative sentiment score exceeds a predefined threshold is flagged for further action.

It makes use of a machine-learning classifier trained on a set of labeled sentences that it believes are biased and which it does not consider to be biased. The SVM algorithm was used in the classifiers. N-gram feature vectors were used to process the text data. Once the model has identified a sentence that is biased, then it uses a set of predefined rules to either make the sentence less biased by modifying it or remove a sentence that is highly biased in either direction.
